README.md, before:

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/bpolaszek/shh/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/bpolaszek/shh)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/bpolaszek/shh.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bpolaszek/shh)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)

# Shh! 🤫

Shh! is a proof-of-concept aiming at dealing with secrets within your Symfony application.

## Why?

I was just reading [Storing secrets for Symfony applications](https://www.webfactory.de/blog/storing-secrets-for-symfony-applications) from [Matthias Pigulla](https://github.com/mpdude) which came with a solution using a Ruby-powered external program.

Then I came up with the following question: why isn't there a PHP implementation of this? 🤔

Here are the key principles:

* Storing secrets in environment variables will expose them through `phpinfo()`, reports, logs, and child processes.
* Common encrypt/decrypt strategies require a _key_ or passphrase which works both ways. The problem is, as the key is needed for the application to work, any developer that has access to the project needs that key and can access any secret in plain text.
* The approach of Matthias is different: any developer can _encrypt_ secrets, but only the production server is able to _decrypt_ them.
* With that approach, the **public key** (needed to encrypt) is commited to VCS, while the **private key** (needed to decrypt) remains property of the production server.
* Encrypted secrets can thus be committed to VCS. Only the production server will be able to read them.

## Installation

```bash
composer require bentools/shh:0.2.*
```

## Configuration

* Add the bundle to your kernel. 
* Create your keys:
    * Create a `shh` directory into your config directory `mkdir -p config/shh` (or `mkdir -p app/config/shh` for Symfony 3)
    * Generate your keys with `php bin/console shh:generate:keys`
    * If you provided one, store the passphrase in the `SHH_PASSPHRASE` environment variable
    * Add `config/shh/private.pem` (or `app/config/shh/private.pem` for Symfony 3) to your `.gitignore` and upload it to your production server.

**And you're ready to go!** 

If you want a different configuration, check out the [configuration reference](#configuration-reference) to discover the available options.

## Usage

### Check the environment is properly configured

```bash
bin/console shh:check // Will check that encryption / decryption work - both private and public keys are needed.
```

```bash
bin/console shh:check --encrypt-only // Will check that encryption works - only public key is needed?
```

### Encrypt a value (public key needed)

```bash
bin/console shh:encrypt
```

### Decrypt a value (public key + private key needed)

```bash
bin/console shh:decrypt
```

### Decrypt secrets in environment variables

This library ships with an environment variable processor. You can use it like this:

```yaml
# config/services.yaml
parameters:
    some_secret_thing: '%env(shh:SOME_ENCRYPTED_SECRET)%'

```

### Working with a secrets file

You can store your encrypted secrets in a `.secrets.json` file at the root of your project directory (you can set a different path in the `SHH_SECRETS_FILE` environment variable).

This file can safely be committed to VCS (as soon as the private key isn't).

To encrypt and register a secret in this file, run the following command:

```bash
bin/console shh:register-secret my_secret # You will be prompted for the value of "my_secret"
```

You can then use your secrets in your configuration files in the following way:

```yaml
# config/services.yaml
parameters:
    my_secret: '%env(shh:key:my_secret:json:file:SHH_SECRETS_FILE)%'

```

## Configuration reference

```yaml
# config/packages/shh.yaml
parameters:
    env(SHH_SECRETS_FILE): '%kernel.project_dir%/.secrets.json'

shh:
    private_key_file:     '%kernel.project_dir%/config/shh/private.pem'
    public_key_file:      '%kernel.project_dir%/config/shh/public.pem'
    passphrase:           '%env(SHH_PASSPHRASE)%'
```

## Tests

```bash
./vendor/bin/phpunit
```

More tests are welcome.

## Feedback

Don't hesitate to ping me on Symfony Slack: **@bpolaszek**.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add a command to change passphrase

README.md, after:

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/bpolaszek/shh/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/bpolaszek/shh)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/bpolaszek/shh.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bpolaszek/shh)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/bentools/shh/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/bentools/shh)

# Shh! 🤫

Shh! is a proof-of-concept aiming at dealing with secrets within your Symfony application.

## Why?

I was just reading [Storing secrets for Symfony applications](https://www.webfactory.de/blog/storing-secrets-for-symfony-applications) from [Matthias Pigulla](https://github.com/mpdude) which came with a solution using a Ruby-powered external program.

Then I came up with the following question: why isn't there a PHP implementation of this? 🤔

Here are the key principles:

* Storing secrets in environment variables will expose them through `phpinfo()`, reports, logs, and child processes.
* Common encrypt/decrypt strategies require a _key_ or passphrase which works both ways. The problem is, as the key is needed for the application to work, any developer that has access to the project needs that key and can access any secret in plain text.
* The approach of Matthias is different: any developer can _encrypt_ secrets, but only the production server is able to _decrypt_ them.
* With that approach, the **public key** (needed to encrypt) is commited to VCS, while the **private key** (needed to decrypt) remains property of the production server.
* Encrypted secrets can thus be committed to VCS. Only the production server will be able to read them.

## Installation

```bash
composer require bentools/shh:0.3.*
```

## Configuration

* Add the bundle to your kernel. 
* Create your keys:
    * Create a `shh` directory into your config directory `mkdir -p config/shh` (or `mkdir -p app/config/shh` for Symfony 3)
    * Generate your keys with `php bin/console shh:generate:keys`
    * If you provided one, store the passphrase in the `SHH_PASSPHRASE` environment variable
    * Add `config/shh/private.pem` (or `app/config/shh/private.pem` for Symfony 3) to your `.gitignore` and upload it to your production server.

**And you're ready to go!** 

If you want a different configuration, check out the [configuration reference](#configuration-reference) to discover the available options.

## Usage

### Check the environment is properly configured

```bash
bin/console shh:check // Will check that encryption / decryption work - both private and public keys are needed.
```

```bash
bin/console shh:check --encrypt-only // Will check that encryption works - only public key is needed?
```

### Encrypt a value (public key needed)

```bash
bin/console shh:encrypt
```

### Decrypt a value (public key + private key needed)

```bash
bin/console shh:decrypt
```

### Decrypt secrets in environment variables

This library ships with an environment variable processor. You can use it like this:

```yaml
# config/services.yaml
parameters:
    some_secret_thing: '%env(shh:SOME_ENCRYPTED_SECRET)%'

```

### Working with a secrets file

You can store your encrypted secrets in a `.secrets.json` file at the root of your project directory (you can set a different path in the `SHH_SECRETS_FILE` environment variable).

This file can safely be committed to VCS (as soon as the private key isn't).

To encrypt and register a secret in this file, run the following command:

```bash
bin/console shh:register-secret my_secret # You will be prompted for the value of "my_secret"
```

You can then use your secrets in your configuration files in the following way:

```yaml
# config/services.yaml
parameters:
    my_secret: '%env(shh:key:my_secret:json:file:SHH_SECRETS_FILE)%'

```

### Changing passphrase

You can change your passphrase if needed: this will result in a new private key being generated. The public key remains unchanged. 

```bash
bin/console shh:change:passphrase
```

As a result, a new private key will be regenerated. You just have to update it everywhere it is used,
and update the `SHH_PASSPHRASE` environment variable as well.

You may do this every time an employee leaves the company, for instance.

## Configuration reference

```yaml
# config/packages/shh.yaml
parameters:
    env(SHH_SECRETS_FILE): '%kernel.project_dir%/.secrets.json'

shh:
    private_key_file:     '%kernel.project_dir%/config/shh/private.pem'
    public_key_file:      '%kernel.project_dir%/config/shh/public.pem'
    passphrase:           '%env(SHH_PASSPHRASE)%'
```

## Tests

```bash
./vendor/bin/phpunit
```

More tests are welcome.

## Feedback

Don't hesitate to ping me on Symfony Slack: **@bpolaszek**.

## License

MIT
